But more things that we can do.
Do you remember from two hours ago
that we were mentioning
the conditional request.
That when you have an asset,
a resource in the cache, but it's expired,
so then the browser needs to make
a conditional request to the server.
Well, on some assets,
we know that that will never happen.
For example, when you're using React or
Angular or Vue CLI, all
the assets that you get, the JavaScript,
the CSS, they have a hash name.
So the name is hashed.
We have something like app05d.js.
So we know that those
files will never change.
So a conditional request on
those assets will always return,
go ahead, the one you have is still valid
because those assets will never expire.
Does it make sense?
When you know that the asset
will never expire,
we can use cache-control immutable.
It's an HTTP header that
you set on those assets.
And for that, we are saying to
the browser, you know what, browser,
this asset will never expire.
So you don't need to make
a conditional request, ever.
Okay, makes sense?
Another cache-control that we have
today is a new pattern that for
those of you with experience
with service worker,
you have been already implementing it
that you need a file, you need a logo.
Okay, if it's in the cache,
here, you have the logo.
So I'm serving the logo from the cache,
okay, makes sense?
For that, that's simple.
But also in the background as
a completely separate thread and process,
I will go to the server and download
the logo again and save it in the cache.
I'm not updating it for you, for
this navigation, it's for the next one.
Does it make sense?
That has a name,
it's called stale-while-revalidate.
And now it's also available on some
browsers directly for the browser's cache.
So you can express that for that image,
you wanna use state-while-revalidate and
with the time that you want that for,
can be minutes, hours, days.
So you want that behavior.
You always serve from the cache,
but also you are updating that in the
background for the next time I need it.
It's just a cache policy
over the browser, okay?
Now, I'm going to mention something
that was asked on the chat,
warming up the engines.
Sometimes it's a good idea to
help the browser to start as
soon as possible everything.
But as we mentioned before, if everything
is important, nothing is important.
So I don't wanna preload everything.
But maybe, maybe I can do some things
that can warm up some engines.
Let's look into our app, into Frontend
Museum, and let me show you something.
Let me do a clean reload.
So I'm going to disable cache.
That means that every time you reload,
it's a start from a scratch.
Let me see if we can find this,
what I want to
show you is that we do
have fonts.googleapis
that is coming from a different domain,
fonts.googleapis.com, right?
So I have my website is localhost,
that's one host, and
Google font is coming from another file.
So another server, and
the same happens if you're using CDNs or
if you're using Google Analytics, or you
are including a chat from a chat provider.
So you're including scripts, files,
resources from third-party domains.
But you don't wanna preload
all of them because, again,
we cannot preload everything.
But something that we can do is
we can warm up the engine to
help with the DNS query and
with the TCP and TLS connection.
So, okay, don't download the file, but
at least go and grab the DNS query,
the IP address from that other domain
before you know that you will need it.
Or go and open the TCP connection and
start the SSL private key,
public key negotiation.
And for that, we can use dns-prefetch
that it looks similar to preload,
but in this case, it's not preloading
a file, it's just getting the DNS.
We are letting the browser know that
it will need to know the IP address
of that domain.
Also, we can preconnect, in this case,
we're asking the browser, hey,
why don't you go and
start opening the connection?
Because I know that you will
need something from there.
The browser doesn't know
what to download yet,
what to request over that connection,
but it will start making the call.
Does it make sense?
So that's why you can start
doing that with a link
element also as an HTTP response, and
we can use this with early hints.
Remember early hints?
While the server is working, we already
sent some hints earlier to the browser.
Well, we can send, hey,
open a connection to that.
Start the DNS with that while I'm working
on the server for giving you the HTML.
So in our case, in our project, something
that we can do is with the only external
file that we have is fonts.googleapis,
also fonts.gstatic.com.
So we can add the link rel, and
it can be dns-prefetch or preconnect.
It's up to you, what do you wanna do?
And you just preconnect to that domain.
In fact, in a modern Google Fonts,
you will get that by default.
Two, three years ago, it wasn't available.
Google Fonts, I'm using the font Inter.
So you go to Google Fonts.
You search for that font Inter, this one.
Here it says how to copy and
paste the code.
And you will see, let me copy that now.
If you paste the one you have,
it's already preconnecting to both domain.
Can you see that, those two preconnects?
But if you were copying
the code a few years ago and
you still have your website up and
running, you don't have those preconnects.
So now Google is suggesting me to
add the preconnect to both domains.
Does it make sense?
Not preload, preconnect.
>> So how does this differ from preload?
>> That preload will also go and
fetch the file.
>> So why would you not just do
preload instead of preconnect?
>> You can, the problem is that sometimes
you have a lot of third-party domains.
And maybe some of those domains are not so
important for
competing on the preload stuff.
Because preconnecting and DNS prefetching
is not competing with preload because
it's not competing with the priority
list or with the discovery list.
It's just something on the network layer.
It's opening some things, and so
you can do that in parallel without
affecting the discovery queue and
the priorities that you are downloading.
Does it make sense?
So it's like a different process.
>> Yeah, it's sort of like-
>> But
if you need something to be preloaded,
then you don't need to preconnect or
DNS prefetch, because preload
will do all the stuff as well.
>> Do it anyway, but
if you preconnect to the URL, and
then you preload one image, the preload
is fine, but then it might mean that.
>> In fact, maybe you're right.
In our case, I shouldn't be doing this for
gstatic.com because we are already
preloading a resource from it.
So I guess I should keep fonts.googleapis.
>> But if you did,
if you were loading from gstatic.com,
something else that you didn't preload,
that would also load
a little quicker because-
>> Yeah,
because the connection is already there.
And the connection is not
lost immediately after one,
because this actually would be two,
the connection keeps connected for
a while to see if you're
still downloading more stuff.
So it will wait one, two, three seconds
before actually cutting the connection.
>> Yeah, you sort of have
to know what you're doing.
>> Yeah.
>> While using-
>> But
if you don't know what you're doing,
at least you know where to look for
it, and that's the browser,
the DevTools, the waterfall chart.
You can use webpage test
to analyze what's going on.
And then you know, maybe this is because,
the thing is that
sometimes you don't assume.
Sometimes it's better to go test this,
see it on a waterfall chart and
see what's going on.
>> Yeah, cuz weird things could be
going on specific to your site.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> In this particular example, do you
need to do a preconnect to a domain when
the next line is accessing
the resource on that domain?
>> No, in that case, as I said, for
this particular example, because I already
have, well, let's say if the next
line is preload, the answer is no.
If the next line is this one,
the stylesheet, the answer is yes, why?
Because having the link,
this has to do with discovery, right?
So yeah, the browser will know
that it has that file, but
that doesn't mean that it
will download that file now.
Preconnect will say, hey,
open the connection now, because when
the browser will download the file will
depend on the priority of that site.
In fact, I think that the answer,
Google has an answer for
you even without explaining you this.
But they are giving you a suggestion of
adding the preconnect even if the next
line is downloading the file.
So Google is saying, yeah, you need
the preconnect because maybe the browser
will download that CSS in 100 millisecond,
in 150 millisecond, not now.
The browser will discover the file, but
the browser is not downloading all the
files immediately after discovering them.
It can wait.
Preconnect will start that,
will warm up the engine immediately.